Why Owning Stuff Feels Illegal Now

When I escaped Cloud Services, I felt like I did a heavy crime, but I didn’t. All of us are socially conditioned, to not leave cloud services, and if we do, we feel guilt. We stuck around with cloud so much, that when we try to escape, its like leaving our entire life behind! But why? This is a story we’ve been told to forget. Let’s remember it.

We get conditioned by four things, and these things are cleverly designed, which I will discuss clearly here. The first thing is that they make leaving cloud hard, they make it have costs. See your playlists on Spotify, your friends on Messenger or Discord, you can’t export it cleanly, like theres no way to export your data without digging through tons of menus and buttons. And we lose like, for example 5 years of our data, so we end up staying because if we start over, because it makes us feel very wasteful. That’s not convenience, that’s classified as a hostage situation. A hostage situation to keep us from switching, switching from cloud, to local services.

Secondly, they make leaving socially hard. When you try to leave, for example, they say “all your friends are on messenger” or “all your friends are on discord, why you want to leave?” When I made RyCord my self-hosted alternative to Discord, most of my classmates didn’t even care. Because for them, if I self-host Discord, they think that I’m anti-social. And that’s the thing, most of these companies who made these social media platforms, they make us feel like we abandoned our own friends.

Third, they make owning feel immoral. They spent their entire time saying that downloading is stealing, so even if you own the Blu-Ray, and you just want to rip it, or to back it up, your brain goes, “is this piracy?” They moved the moral line to condition us that owning your own media, feels like a federal crime. When I was ripping Blu-Rays for RyCenter, my Netflix alternative, it made me feel like I’m doing a crime, even though its perfectly legalized. They make us feel a criminal, just to own our own stuff.

And lastly, they make self-hosting feel, unsafe. Most of these companies that offer cloud services, make us feel that self-hosting is bad, because you can get hacked for just port forwarding a single port. They make us use Cloud because, it’s secure. So when you self host something, you feel irresponsible, even though your data in the cloud has a high chance of being leaked. They make us feel reckless, just for hosting something yourself

These companies make us forget these very things, so that a kid can say that a movie is Netflix, not the fact that Netflix is an app that shows movies. When you, for example say that you have movies on a hard drive, they think that you pirated those movies off Netflix. The idea is that a file can just exist on your hard drive is an intruder now. And that’s the very end of this essay.