My Quest for Digital Independence — Replacing Social Media Services

In the last essay, I talked about how I replaced Netflix and Spotify with my own alternative, called RyCenter. I explained where I got the movies and music files from various trust worthy sources. In this essay I am going to talk about replacing social media services such as Facebook and Messenger, with my own alternative called RyCord. Now how did I pull this off, well not in the way you would expect. See most people, don’t know that I can code in various programming languages, to name two, Python and ASM. Now with my newly revealed I could finally get started.

Six months ago, I wrote a Discord alternative called RyCord in Python, the only problem though, was the fact that it was experiencing errors because of countless bugs I left in the code. So well thought of me guys. The first thing I did was to read the code, looking for bugs and security flaws in my ancient code, because I haven’t touched this code in six months. After I read the code and found the bugs that I needed to fix, and then I found a massive backdoor. In the original version of this essay, I lied that there was a small backdoor, and I fixed it in the same programming language I programmed RyCord in. See Python is a community made coding language, and even though it is open source, it was still a flawed piece of software. The only real thing to fix this flaw, was to ditch Python, and full send into ASM. It took me my entire Municipal Meet Weekend to rewrite the entire piece of software in ASM, while checking for bugs as I coded.

After all that, I finally got a fully reliable version fo RyCord ready for use. Now I wanted to use this with my classmates in the first place, but the problem was that of port forwarding, Because I was stuck with CG-NAT on my Globe Fiber, it basically meant I couldn’t port forward, so I tried playit.gg and ngrok, which were tunneling services. They all broke on my internet, either because I forgot to give my literal auth token, or it wasn’t supported on my operating system. So I tried a reverse SSH proxy, and it worked. I don’t even know what I'm doing at this point of my shenanigans with tunneling services, or how did Serveo work on my internet at this point. So I sent the link to my classmates, but they didn’t use it. Probably because they were just not active on messenger at the time. So I stuck to using it with my family, and it was more reliable than expected, yeah my discord alternative can’t support short-form content but it gets the job done for me.

What I learned from this experience, is that privacy is above all the most important aspect of your digital life. And that’s it.
