My Quest for Digital Independence — Replacing AI

In the last essay I talked about replacing Discord with RyCord, my very own Discord experience. There were some mild hiccups but other than that, it’s super reliable. In this essay I will be documenting my journey of replacing AI. Let’s begin. Now I already had a disadvantage, because unlike most people running massive computers with tons of GPUs, I had nothing. The only free device I had that was powerful to run this thing, was a Huawei Y7a, a phone from 2021. Now at this point, this limited my options to run AI on this thing, but then I remembered, that I have written an AI called Laude AI before. So i went ahead on GitHub and pulled my code from it onto the phone with Termux, a terminal emulator.

Now with my AI on my old phone, let me explain what’s Laude AI in the first place. Laude AI is a rule based AI, which means that it uses if-then statements from a dataset, it’s own knowledge, to then answer your questions. It incorporates fuzzy matching to handle typos. It’s not like ChatGPT or Claude, but unlike those two that hallucinate sometimes, Laude AI does not. I mean sure, it can’t write code or essays, or even solve math, but it’s super reliable, and enough to run on an old phone. Now that I have explained how Laude works, it’s time to run it. Since Laude uses Python, and does not require anything else, it’s super easy to install and host, so easy that I think a 5 year old could do it.

At this point, I realized that Laude is dumb, it does not have a lot of knowledge. So what’d you expect, I decided to learn how to use AI for the second time in my life. When I used AI before, it was just for grammar, but now I’ll use it to add more examples to the dataset. In the original version of this essay written for school, I lied that I made the dataset with Claude an AI Assistant by Anthropic. In reality, I spent over 200 hours of my life, typing out examples for Laude, I typed an example every 28 seconds, I typed 2 examples every minute, I typed 128 examples every hour, and in total I typed 25,498 examples for Laude to be reliable. Then I tried doing an ”stress test”, basically using a program, and tests reliability and response time. And there was a problem, I kept getting timed out. Turns out the socket server was single-threaded, therefore it couldn’t handle a lot of request at the same time, so I went into my code base and added multithreading, so it could handle more requests, and the reliability went up. At this point, I didn’t just make a replacement, I made a masterpiece, something that can last forever.

So what did I learn while replacing AI, I learned perseverance, to persevere even when I am at my lowest. And that’s it.
