My Quest for Digital Independence — Replacing Streaming Services

In the last essay, I talked about how companies “legally” collect our data and use it to train AI models and, sometimes sell our data to data brokers, who are people that sell our data to more companies. I also listed the “Top 3” companies that have the most services I use. The three services that I was using were streaming services such as Netflix, social media services such as Facebook and YouTube, and lastly AI tools such as Claude, even though I don’t use AI that much. The first service that I will be replacing are my streaming services. Now this was a hard task, since like most people, we traded our privacy for convenience, but now that we have privacy, we don’t have our convenience anymore.

The first step was finding movies. Now most people probably never heard of a “DVD” or a “Blu-Ray” disc, because of Netflix, but basically its a shiny spinning platter that you put in a drive, and a laser reads the data on the disc. Most people who used DVDs or Blu-Ray Discs before used it to watch movies. For most people that had a collection of Blu-Ray discs before this was going to be easy, but unlike most people, most DVDs or Blu-Rays that I found in my area, were just pirated movies. So I couldn’t rely on DVDs or Blu-Ray discs anymore, In the original version of this essay, I said that I had to use Google Play Movies, which is a lie. In reality I went across continents, without a guardian or a parent by my side, in search of legit Blu-Rays, until I had 35 of those Blur-Rays, so I went home and ripped them into MP4 files that I can play. Also with the Blu-Rays, I went ahead and typed 35 NFOs for my movies.

The second step was to get music. Since I use Spotify on a daily basis, and is classified as a streaming service. In the original version of this essay, I lied when I say that I went on SoundCloud and got music files there. In reality, when I was in another country searching for Blu-Rays, I also went ahead and searched for music albums from my favorite artists, like Charlie Puth, Laufey, and more. Also I went and ripped the metadata, which is the data that tells more information about the song, like what album its a part off, when it was released, who wrote this song, and more.

The last step was to find a way of presenting these files in a Netflix and Spotify like way. I first tried VLC, which is a media player app that supports many different formats, but it didn’t live up to my standards of displaying movies like Netflix. Then i tried Nova Media Player, which is similar to Netflix in a way, but the downside of which I had to find the metadata itself as NFO files. This proved to be a difficult task, since I didn’t have the time to download the posters and NFOs myself. Then I found about Kodi, which is an open-source media center app, that finds the metadata for you and displays my movie collection like Netflix and my music collection like Spotify, so my time for making NFOs was wasted. I had now found a suitable app to use, so I installed it, and it didn’t do anything. Turns out, I had to set up Kodi, to detect that in my Movies folder, that it contains movies. Same goes for my Music folder. And at this very point, I realized I didn’t just build a Netflix and Spotify replacement, I made a streaming service replacement, by myself.

As of now I’m calling this project “RyCenter”, because, for me, it replaced Netflix and Spotify better than I could even imagine. My movie collection holds 35 movies, and my music collection holds 28 songs. And that’s it.
