My Quest for Digital Independence — How it All Started

Hi I’m Rygel, and this is how my quest for digital independence began. I am a person who uses a lot of cloud services, and I, like most people don’t read the T&Cs and Privacy Policy when I decide to make an account for a service. One time when I was bored, so I decided to read the Privacy Policies of the services I use. Turns out these services have gone way too far. Here is one for example: Netflix. It states that in their Privacy Policy that they collect my data, like watch history, and use that data to train AI models, to recommend you more things to watch, or “share” your data to lots of partners, but those partners use that data to target you with ads. Now as a 14 year old person, this was crazy, since I didn’t read the Privacy Policies in the first place I had no clue that this was happening behind the scenes. And at this point I had no idea how to stop this, so I decided to fight back.

And the worst part. It’s all legal. Since I did not read the Privacy Policy, under “data collection”, I did not know that when I clicked “I Agree”, that this would happen behind my back. Now Netflix has my watch history, and Google has my location and more. They didn’t even hide it, they just knew we wouldn’t read the policies in the first place. Now I’m thinking: what else? If Netflix sells my watch history, then what does TikTok sell? If Google trains AI on my search history, then what are they training it to do? I made an account in the span of minutes and gave away years of my data. That is not fair. We are trading our own privacy for convenience and call it normal. But after reading the policies, normal doesn’t feel right anymore.

The policy says that they don’t sell, but says they share with partners to personalize. The policy, even if you read it before, and there’s no sharing to partners listed, well that can change, because that policy is not “set in stone”. The lie isn’t what they say, it’s what they hide in between the lines. The policy, is their shield, against people who now had made an account unknowingly of the fact that the policy now says they share your data to partners. So I decided to fight back against these tyrannical services. In the original version of this essay I said that I made a list of the top 3 services that I used, those three were, Netflix and Spotify as streaming services, Facebook and Messenger as social platforms, and the biggest lie of the three was, Claude. In the original, I said that I use Claude not that much, but that’s to use it as a puppet in the following essays. In fact the reason why I am telling you about this, is that people might think that I’m crazy. So basically, in the original essay series, I lied and made it seem true that I use Claude, but in this truthful rewrite, I didn’t even use Claude at least thrice in my whole life. And that is it for now.